Qiu, Weijie, et al. "A Grid Forming/Following Sequence Switching Control Strategy for Supporting Frequency Stability of Isolated Power Grids." 2023 5th Asia Energy and Electrical Engineering Symposium (AEEES). IEEE, 2023.

For an isolated power grid, due to the high penetration of renewable energy, the system inertia is low, and frequency instability is prone to occur after the power grid is disturbed.
<be>At present, most of converters adopt grid following (GFL) control mode and have no inertia control loop, cannot respond to the frequency dynamic process of system and cannot provide inertia support for power grid. In recent years, grid forming (GFM) control has gradually become a main control strategy to solve system frequency problems due to the introduction of control loops that simulate the inertia response of synchronous machines, which has the inertia support capability similar to that of the synchronous machines.

<be>Under a grid following control mode, the higher the renewable energy penetration, the easier the system frequency is to be unstable.
<be>Under a grid forming control mode, the impact on system frequency stability needs to be analyzed according to the specific control strategy and the level of penetration.

<be>In order to give full play to the advantages of grid forming and grid following control modes, A grid forming/following sequence switching control strategy for supporting frequency stability of isolated power grids is proposed in this paper. By dynamically switching the control mode according to different processes of frequency dynamic, the maximum frequency deviation and stabilization time of system can be reduced. Moreover, this sequence switching control strategy only relies on the dynamic characteristics of two different control modes, so there is no need to reserve power capacity in advance.
