Quedan, Amro, et al. "Dynamic behavior of combined 100% IBR transmission and distribution networks with grid-forming and grid-following inverters." 2023 IEEE Power & Energy Society Innovative Smart Grid Technologies Conference (ISGT). IEEE, 2023.

<be>Overall, system inertia reduces as these resources replace rotating synchronous machines. Grid-forming control is one of the solutions introduced to overcome the challenges in the electrical grid due to the increase in inverters.
<be>The presence of RSMs results in a slow system dynamic trajectory that allows precise grid voltage angle tracking. However, as IBR increase and replace RSMs, faster system dynamics are introduced and GFLs may fail to remain synchronized with the system.As one of the potential solutions, the grid-forming inverter (GFM) is introduced as an RSMs replacement to control/regulate the electrical grid voltage and frequency.

<be>Different grid-forming control strategies have been proposed in the literature, such as droop control, virtual synchronous machine (VSM), and virtual oscillator control (VOC). Recently, an Andronov-Hopf oscillator (AHO) control has been proposed. It emulates the dynamics of a set of second order nonlinear equations. The AHO attracts more attention than other VOC strategies due to its flexibility to be dispatched by adjusting the active and reactive power set values and ability to provide an improved harmonic performance.

<be>Current limiting is a crucial factor to consider when analyzing the dynamic behavior of GFL and GFM. Any inverter, irrespective of GFL or GFM, is a current limited device with a current limiting algorithm. Two main current limiting algorithms are presented in literature: the current saturation algorithm (CSA) and the virtual impedance (VI). The CSA provides more accurate current limitation than the VI.
